= DataMapper MongoDB Adapter

Useful links:

* http://github.com/solnic/dm-mongo-adapter
* http://groups.google.com/group/dm-mongo-adapter
* http://rdoc.info/projects/solnic/dm-mongo-adapter

== Dependencies

Ruby gems

* dm-core ~> 0.10.2
* dm-aggregates ~> 0.10.2
* mongo ~> 0.18.3

== Install

  gem install dm-mongo-adapter --pre

== Synopsis

  DataMapper.setup(:default,
    :adapter  => 'mongo',
    :database => 'my_mongo_db',
  )

  # Define embedded resources
  class Address
    include DataMapper::Mongo::EmbeddedResource

    property :street, String
    property :city, String
    property :state, String
    property :postal_code, String
  end

  class Score
    include DataMapper::Mongo::EmbeddedResource

    property :grade, Float
    property :course_id, DBRef

    belongs_to :course
  end

  # Define top-level resources
  class Student
    include DataMapper::Mongo::Resource

    property :id, ObjectID
    property :name, String
    property :age, Integer

    embeds 1, :address, :model => Address
    embeds n, :scores
  end

  class Course
    include DataMapper::Mongo::Resource

    property :id, ObjectID
    property :name, String
  end

  # No need to (auto_)migrate!
  biology = Course.create(:name => "Biology")
  english = Course.create(:name => "English")

  # Nested attributes
  student = Student.create(:name => "John", :age => "26",
    :address => { :street => "123 Main St.", :city => "New York", :state => "NY", :postal_code => "10014" },
    :scores  => [ { :grade => 4.0, :course_id => biology.id }, { :grade => 3.0, :course_id => english.id } ])

  # Queries
  Student.all(:age.gte => 20, :name => /oh/, :limit => 20, :order => [:age.asc])

  # Reaching into embedded objects
  Student.all(:"address.state" => "NY")

  # Array and Hash as a property
  class Zoo
    include DataMapper::Mongo::Resource

    property :id, ObjectID
    property :opening_hours, Hash
    property :animals, Array
  end

  Zoo.create(
    :opening_hours => { :weekend => '9am-8pm', :weekdays => '11am-8pm' },
    :animals       => [ "Marty", "Alex", "Gloria" ])

  Zoo.all(:animals => 'Alex')

== DataMapper plugins

Currently the adapter works with:

1. dm-timestamps
2. dm-validations
3. dm-aggregates
4. dm-pager
5. dm-serializer
6. dm-types

and expect more of course :)

== Authors and contributors

The adapter has been originally written by Shane Hanna (shanna). Project is currently maintained by Piotr Solnica (solnic).

Contributors:

* Anthony Williams (antw)
* Lance Carlson (lancecarlson)

== Note on Patches/Pull Requests

* Fork the project.
* Make your feature addition or bug fix.
* Add tests for it. This is important so I don't break it in a
  future version unintentionally.
* Commit, do not mess with rakefile, version, or history.
  (if you want to have your own version, that is fine but bump version in a commit by itself I can ignore when I pull)
* Send me a pull request. Bonus points for topic branches.

== Copyright

Copyright (c) 2009 "Shane Hanna", 2009-2010 "Piotr Solnica". See LICENSE for details.
